Private link tutorial (#490)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/tutorials/private-link.adoc

[[aura-private-link-tutorial]]
= Private link tutorial

label:AuraDB-Virtual-Dedicated-Cloud[]

> The technical documentation for this section is applicable to all clouds (cloud agnostic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is cloud-agnostic and therefore applicable to all clouds.
```

> We will use the term “private link” to refer to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term “private link” refers to:
```

* Private Service Connect = Google Cloud platform
* PrivateLink = AWS
* Private Link = Azure

> In this tutorial, we’ll walk through the process of setting up a private link connection to securely connect your application to an AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks through the process of setting up a private link connection to securely connect your application to an AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud environment. 
```

A private link provides secure network connectivity between your application and AuraDB without exposing traffic to the public internet.
Refer to Figure 1 for a visual representation of the network package traffic flow.

> .This diagram illustrates the network package traffic flow when an application connects to an Aura instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.The network package traffic flow when an application connects to an Aura instance.
```

image::aura-private-link-architecture.png[Fig.1 Aura Private Link/Private Service Connect Architecture]

> == Steps

Reviewer: These steps are not steps that the user can take and maybe not necessary in a tutorial. They could move to another section where we would talk about the internals of private links.

[NOTE]
======

> We will use dbid: abcd1234 and orch-id: 0000 in this tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thw dbid: abcd1234 and orch-id: 0000 are used in this tutorial. 
```

> These will be different in your own AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are different in your AuraDB Virtual Dedicated Cloud environment.
```

======

. The application initializes a driver connection to neo4j+s://abcd1234.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io.
. The network layer then queries the DNS server to resolve the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) (in this case, abcd1234.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io) to its corresponding IP address.
. The Cloud Virtual Network private DNS is queried, and it resolves the FQDN to 10.10.10.10, based on the wildcard DNS A record created: *.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io -> 10.10.10.10
. The application's connection is directed to 10.10.10.10, which is the private link endpoint. 
From there, the private link endpoint forwards the network connection to the private ingress through the private link.
. The private ingress extracts the dbid from the FQDN and directs the connection to the appropriate Aura instance (dbid: abcd1234).

> . The Aura instance responds by sending the Neo4j cluster routing table back to the application, which contains information about the available nodes and their roles (see Table 1 below).

Reviewer: Don't use the word _node_ in this context.

> . The application then selects an appropriate node to execute a read or write transaction. In the case of a write transaction, the application sends the transaction to abcd1234-core-1.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io.

Reviewer: As above. Also wondering why the dbid contains the word _core_.

> Based on the type of transaction (Read or Write) the driver selects an appropriate node to execute a read or write transaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the type of transaction (read or write) the driver selects an appropriate node to execute a read or write transaction. 
```

> The code has the ability to direct the Tx to the appropriate nodes this way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code has the ability to direct the transaction to the appropriate nodes this way.
```
Again with nodes. Replace with instance maybe? Or cluster member?

. Similar to before, the Cloud Virtual Network private DNS is queried and resolves the FQDN to 10.10.10.10. The application's connection is sent to the private link endpoint (10.10.10.10), which forwards the network connection to the private ingress through the private link. 
The private ingress then directs the connection to the Aura instance with dbid: abcd1234.
. Finally, the write transaction is received and executed within the Aura instance with dbid: abcd1234.

.Available nodes and their roles
[cols="1,1"]
|===
|abcd1234-core-1.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io
|role: write

|abcd1234-core-2.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io
|role: read

|abcd1234-core-3.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io
|role: read
|=== 

== Summary

When you create a private link using the Aura console, the private ingress becomes accessible to all projects within the cloud provider’s VPC. 

> *The private link maps to an Orchestra not a tenant. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*The private link maps to an Orchestra, not a project. 
```

> We could have multiple orchestras (usually multiple regions)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could have multiple orchestras (usually multiple regions)*
```

For example, if you’re using AWS, you can identify this private ingress by its unique name in your AWS environment.

> First, create a private ingress service in Aura VPC, then create a cloud endpoint and try to connect to the service we have provided, then this private link will be accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a private ingress service in Aura VPC, then create a cloud endpoint and try to connect to the service provided, then this private link will be accepted.
```

> It’s all done on the Aura console and you can do it by yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be completed on the Aura console.
```

And then there’s a trickier step, but it's the most important thing. 
*The private DNS.*
You should configure this private DNS.
If you are using AWS, then AWS will create this private DNS for you. 
For Google or Azure, you have to manually create this private DNS.

> Add the Wildcard DNS entry *.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io and point it to the cloud IP endpoint.

Reviewer: This needs a rewrite.

== Cloud endpoints

A cloud endpoint is essentially a network forwarding rule. 
It receives network packets, but doesn't open them and forwards them to the Neo4j private ingress via the private link. 
However, the private ingress only accepts packets from a recognized FQDN.

> For example, http://abcd1234-core-1.production-orch-0000.neo4j.io/

Reviewer: Again with the core.

There might be some other instances running in the same customer Aura environment. 
We use this Access Point QDN (Qualified Domain Name) to figure out which Aura instance it is trying to reach.
*Important: We will not accept the IP address. 
Only the FQDN will be accepted.*

== Private DNS

Once the private ingress, private link, and private endpoint with the DNS entry are configured, the application will attempt to reach the IP address.

> And then it will try to go and check the private link, like “hey, what is the private DNS address for this AFQDN?”

Author: Yes, maybe it can say:

"Once the private ingress, private link, and private endpoint with the DNS entry are configured, the application will attempt to reach the IP address. Then it will check the private link, to check the private DNS address for the AFQDN.

Then the private DNS will tell the application to go to the IP address of the endpoint." 

Thanks for all the feedback @AlexicaWright 🙌
